=Introduction=
Production of native proteins containing one or more disulfide bonds can be a non-trivial process.  This method takes advantage of the native ''Escherichia coli'' protein OsmY to act as a [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18727129 secretion shuttle], and the ''Saccharomyces cerevisiae'' protein [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16322573 Smt3] as a chaperone and cleavage target.  The protein fusion partner also contains a deca-His tag for purification by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC).  If you're using one of the other OsmY secretion shuttle vectors, such as pCDB27 or pCDB28, you can follow the same procedure for protein expression and purification, but the cloning and tag cleavage will be slightly different.

===General tips===
*For analysis, use 10-20% Tris-Tricine gels from BioRad to analyze samples from this protocol by SDS-PAGE, and collect all samples in [[Electrophoresis#2X Tris-Tricine Sample Buffer|2X Tris-Tricine Sample Buffer]]
**Do not include reductant in your sample buffer when saving samples for SDS-PAGE unless otherwise specified.


=Prepare the expression construct=
We will be using [[Gibson Assembly]] with pCDB180 as the vector backbone cut with [https://www.neb.com/products/R0146-XhoI ''Xho''I].  This plasmid carries a [[Antibiotic stock solutions#Kanamycin|kanamycin]] (KAN) resistance cassette.

===Design the expression vector===
Generate the insert for your gene with the following DNA cassettes flanking the ends of your gene.
*upstream cassette: 5'- CCGTGAACAGATTGGCGGC -3'
*downstream cassette: 5'- TAATGAGGATCCGGCTGCTAACAAAG -3' (this adds two stop codons to the end of your gene) 
The cassette sequences are given for the coding strand, but your DNA must be double stranded for Gibson assembly.  Either [https://www.neb.com/protocols/1/01/01/pcr-protocol-m0530 PCR] up an existing gene you wish to move into pCDB180, or obtain a synthetic gene, such as a [http://eu.idtdna.com/pages/products/genes gBlock] from IDT.

===Prepare the vector for Gibson assembly===
Digest a [http://www.qiagen.com/resources/Download.aspx?id={89BFA021-7310-4C0F-90E0-6A9C84F66CEE}&lang=en&ver=1 mini-prep]'s worth of pCDB180 DNA with a ≈ 100-fold over-digest using ''Xho''I from NEB.  Following digestion, heat inactivate the restriction endonuclease by incubation at 80°C for 20 min.
*Make sure to determine the concentration of the DNA before you start the digest.  You will need the concentration of the digested DNA to set up the Gibson assembly reaction, and the presence of protein in the digestion reaction will make determining an accurate DNA concentration difficult by λ = 260 nm absorption afterwords.

===Assemble the vector===
Follow the [[Gibson Assembly#The Gibson Assembly|Gibson Assembly]] protocol.

===Transform the construct===
Transform 5 μL from the Gibson assembly using the [[1 minute transformation]] into [http://products.invitrogen.com/ivgn/product/C404010 TOP10] ''Escherichia coli'' and plate cells onto [[Media#LB agar|LB agar]] containing 30 μg/mL KAN.

===Verify the construct===
Inoculate 6 mL of [[Media#TBM|TBM]], supplemented with 100 μg/mL KAN, from a single colony.  Incubate overnight (≤ 16 hr) at 37°C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM.  The next day, add 100 μL of sterile 100% [wt/vol] glycerol to 900 μL from the overnight culture, for a final volume of 1 mL with 10% [wt/vol] glycerol, in a cryo-vial and store at -80°C.  [http://www.qiagen.com/resources/Download.aspx?id={89BFA021-7310-4C0F-90E0-6A9C84F66CEE}&lang=en&ver=1 Mini-prep] the DNA from the remaining ≈ 5 mL of culture.  Determine the DNA concentration with the nano-drop and send for [http://www.genewiz.com/public/DNA-sequencing-services.aspx Sanger sequencing] using the following primers:
*Primer 316: 5'-CCTGTATGACGGTATTCG-3'
*T7 Terminator Primer: 5'-GCTAGTTATTGCTCAGCGG-3'
I recommend using [http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/bioedit/bioedit.html Bioedit] to perform the alignments to verify your construct sequence.  Here's an [http://phylogeneticgeek.wordpress.com/2011/08/05/how-to-install-bioedit-on-a-mac/ install guide for mac].


=Express the protein in bacteria=
===Transform into the expression strain===
Once the sequence of the expression constructs have been verified, transform ≈ 1 – 2 μL of purified plasmid into [http://www.lifetechnologies.com/order/catalog/product/C601003 BL21*(DE3)] cells, again using the [[1 minute transformation]].  Plate the cells onto [[Media#MDAG-11 agar|MDAG-11 agar]] supplemented with 100 μg/mL KAN.

===Prepare media===
For each construct, prepare a flask containing [[Media#Almost TB|Almost TB]] in a baffled Erlenmeyer flask.
*I recommend filling the flask to about 20% of the total volume.  For example, if you have a 250 mL flask, your culture should be 50 mL.
*Do not use the proprietary [http://www.mpbio.com/product.php?pid=113046032 Terrific Broth II], as this media contains something (I don't know what, and MP Biomedicals won't tell me) that strips metal from NiNTA resin and will ruin your prep.

===Prepare starter cultures===
Inoculate a 50 mL culture of [[Media#MDAG-135|MDAG-135]] in a 250 mL baffled Erlenmeyer flask, supplemented with 100 μg/mL KAN, using either a single colony from an agar plate, or by using a scrape from a -80°C bacterial stock.  Incubate the culture for ≤ 16 hr at 37°C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM.
*If you inoculate the starter culture using a pipette tip, do not eject the tip into the culture tube, as this is a common way to introduce contamination.
*Alternatively, you can use 3 mL of MDAG-135 media in a 10 mL culture tube.

===Inoculate autoinduction culture===
Using the flask containing [[Media#Almost TB|Almost TB]], prepare [[Media#TBM-5052|TBM-5052]], add KAN to 100 μg/mL, and inoculate at a 1:100 dilution from the overnight culture (for example, use 500 μL of starter culture to inoculate 50 mL of expression media).  Incubate this culture at 37°C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM for ≈ 24 hours.
*Add [http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/a6457 Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion] to 0.003% [wt/vol].  The stock solution is 30% [wt/vol], so treat Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion as if it were a 10,000× concentrate.  For example, add 50 μL of Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion to a 0.5 L expression culture (use a wide-bore pipette tip as the emulsion is highly viscous).

===Harvest media===
Transfer the culture to a centrifuge bottle and pellet the bacteria from the media by centrifugation.  Filter the supernatant from the centrifugation through [http://www.fishersci.com/ecomm/servlet/fsproductdetail_10652_12704331__-1_0 Nalgene supor machV] 0.2 μm pore bottle top filters (Fast PES bottle top filter, 1000 mL cup volume, 90 mm diameter membrane, 45 mm neck)
*Spin the cultures for 20 min at 12,000 RCF at 4°C for 1 L bottles, or 20 min at 4,5000 RCF for 50 mL conical tubes.
*The type of filter is very important with larger volumes; if you do not use this specific brand and model, this step can take hours and require many filters.
*Make sure to save a sample of the filtered bacteria-conditioned media for analysis by SDS-PAGE.


=Purify the protein=
The following purification protocol will capture protein secreted into the media, and involves two IMAC steps, which will be referred to as primary (1°) and secondary (2°).  The 1° IMAC step will purify the fusion protein, which we will then cleave.  The 2° IMAC step will separate the protein of interest from the cleaved OsmY-SUMO fusion partner, SUMO protease, as well as any remaining undigested fusion protein.
*Additional protein can be obtained from the cellular fraction using the [[Periplasmic purification|periplasmic purification]] protocol.

==Primary IMAC==
===Bind secreted protein in batch===
You can keep the filtered supernatant in whatever bottle was used during filtration.  Add ≈ 1 – 2 mL of [http://www.qiagen.com/products/catalog/sample-technologies/protein-sample-technologies/purification-kits-and-resins/ni-nta-superflow 50% Ni-NTA resin slurry] for every 50 mL of filtered bacteria-conditioned media.  Incubate the filtered bacteria-conditioned media with the Ni-NTA resin at room temperature (≈ 22°C – 25°C) for ≈ 1 – 2 hr (or overnight at 4°C) with nutation or gentle shaking at ≈ 65 – 70 RPM.

===Load column and wash===
Allow the resin to settle to the bottom of the bottle for ≈ 15 minutes.  Next, pour the liquid off the top into an empty gravity column until the resin also starts to pour off.  Allow the bacteria-conditioned media to flow through the column.  Then, swirl the remaining liquid and re-suspend the Ni-NTA resin, and pour this over the column.  This two-step process will greatly reduce the time required to separate the resin from the filtered supernatant.
*For large volumes, use a [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/737-4151-econo-column-chromatography-columns-1-5-10-cm BioRad 1.5 × 10 cm Econo-Column] equipped with a [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/737-9113-econo-column-reservoir 1 L reservoir] and a [http://www.fishersci.com/ecomm/servlet/fsproductdetail_10652_16031524__-1_0 funnel].  For smaller volumes, use an [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/7321010-econo-pac-chromatography-columns Econo-Pac Chromatography Column]
*Collect the bacteria-conditioned media flowthrough, also called 1° IMAC flowthrough. Save a sample of this flowthrough for analysis by SDS-PAGE, then discard the rest.

===Wash the column===
Add ≈ 10 – 20 mL of [[#IMAC wash buffer|IMAC wash buffer]] to the container that was used for batch-binding, swirl to collect any remaining resin, and pour over the column.  Next, wash the Ni-NTA resin in the column twice with IMAC wash buffer.  Each wash should be ≈ 10× the volume of resin used.

===Elute fusion protein===
Elute OsmY-SUMO tagged protein from the resin by adding 20 mL of [[#IMAC elution buffer|IMAC elution buffer]] for the column.  Collect the 1° IMAC eluate in a 50 mL conical tube.
*Make sure to save a sample of the 1° IMAC eluate for analysis by SDS-PAGE.

==Cleave the fusion protein==
===Dialyize into cleavage buffer===
Dialyize the 1° IMAC eluate against 1 L of [[#Cleavage buffer|cleavage buffer]] to reduce the concentration of NaCl and imidazole.  After dialysis, transfer the protein to a 50 mL conical tube.
*If using a 20 mL D-tube dialyzer, dialyze overnight at 4°C.
*Save ≈ 100 mL of the dialysis buffer after the dialysis is finished.

===Protease digestion===
Run a [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/5000006-bio-rad-protein-assay-dye-reagent-concentrate Bradford assay] to determine the protein concentration in the dialyzed 1° IMAC eluate.  To cleave the fusion construct, add ≈ 1 mg of [[Purify SUMO protease|SUMO protease]] for every 5 mg of fusion protein.  Incubate the digest at room temperature for ≈ 1 hr.
*A<sub>280</sub> is not recommended for determining protein concentration at this step; if there is any contaminating protein in the 1° IMAC eluate, your concentration estimate can be dramatically incorrect.  Any assay agnostic to protein identity can be substituted in place of Bradford, such as BCA or Qubit.  Use the saved dialysis buffer to make the blank when determining protein concentration.
*Make sure to save a sample of the post-cleavage 1° IMAC eluate for analysis by SDS-PAGE.

==Secondary IMAC==
===Bind protein in batch===
Add ≈ 1.5× – 2× the amount of [[Ni-NTA resin recharge|50% Ni-NTA resin slurry]] that was used in the 1° IMAC step (more may needed to capture the protease in addition to the original load).  Incubate with gentle rotation at room temperature (≈ 22°C – 25°C) for ≈ 1 hr.

===Load the column===
Add the digest/NiNTA mix to an empty [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/732-1010-econo-pac-chromatography-columns gravity column] and collect the flowthrough in a 50 mL conical tube.
*Make sure to save a sample of the 2° IMAC flowthrough for analysis by SDS-PAGE.

===Wash the column===
Add ≈ 5 mL of the saved dialysis buffer to the column to wash out any remaining cleaved material from the resin bed.  Collect this in the 50 mL conical tube containing the 2° IMAC flowthrough.

===Elute bound material===
Add 20 mL of [[#high imidazole IMAC elution buffer|high imidazole IMAC elution buffer]] to the resin and collect this eluate in a separate 50 mL conical tube.  This should contain the cleaved fusion protein (31 kDa) as well as the SUMO protease (27 kDa).
*Make sure to save a sample of the 2° IMAC eluate for analysis by SDS-PAGE.
*This step is optional, but it has two potential benefits.  First, the gel sample can be very helpful for troubleshooting purposes.  Second, collecting 2° IMAC eluate can save the prep in the event your the SUMO protease has gone bad.  Should this be this case, you can restart the purification protocol at the [[#Dialyize into cleavage buffer|dialysis step]].

==Prepare the final material==
===Concentrate the protein===
Using an [https://www.fishersci.ca/productDetails_PROD_4902700 Amicon Ultra] 3k MWCO concentrator, concentrate the 2° IMAC flowthrough/wash down to ≤ 800 μL.

===Dialyize into CD buffer===
Dialyize the concentrated protein twice against 1 L of [[#CD buffer|CD buffer]] in serial to prepare the protein for circular dichroism spectroscopy.
*It is not necessary to change the dialysis cassette in between the dialysis step, just the dialysis buffer.
*Make sure to save a sample of the mature, pure material for analysis by SDS-PAG.  I recommend running this sample in duplicate, once without reductant in the [[Electrophoresis#2X Tris-Tricine Sample Buffer|sample buffer]], and once including DTT to 50 mM.  Generally, designs folded into a homogenous species will migrate as a single distinct band, and the speed of migration will change when the disulfide bonds are reduced (shift can be slower or faster).


=Recipes=
====IMAC wash buffer====
500 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH 7.4, 5 mM Imidazole

To make 1 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 250 mL || [[Buffers_and_solutions#2 M NaCl|2 M NaCl]]
|-
| 40 mL || [[Buffers_and_solutions#500 mM NaPi pH 7.4 or 8.0|500 mM NaPi pH 7.4]]
|-
| 2.5 mL || [[Buffers_and_solutions#2 M Imidazole pH 8.0|2 M Imidazole pH 8.0]]
|-
| colspan="2"| [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_satis ''q.s.''] to 1 L with water.
|-
|}


====IMAC elution buffer====
500 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH 7.4, 150 mM Imidazole

To make 1 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 250 mL || 2 M NaCl
|-
| 40 mL || 500 mM NaPi pH 7.4
|-
| 75 mL || 2 M Imidazole pH 8.0
|-
| colspan="2"| ''q.s.'' to 1 L with water.
|-
|}


====high-imidazole IMAC elution buffer====
500 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH 7.4, 400 mM Imidazole

To make 1 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 250 mL || 2 M NaCl
|-
| 40 mL || 500 mM NaPi pH 7.4
|-
| 200 mL || 2 M Imidazole pH 8.0
|-
| colspan="2"| ''q.s.'' to 1 L with water.
|-
|}


====Cleavage buffer====
150 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH7.4

To make 1 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 75 mL || 2 M NaCl
|-
| 40 mL || 500 mM NaPi pH 7.4
|-
| colspan="2"| ''q.s.'' to 1 L with water.
|-
|}


====CD buffer====
50 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH7.4

To make 2 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 50 mL || 2 M NaCl
|-
| 80 mL || 500 mM NaPi pH 7.4
|-
| colspan="2"| ''q.s.'' to 2 L with water.
|-
|}
