=Introduction=
Production of native proteins containing one or more disulfide bonds can be a non-trivial process.  This method takes advantage of the native ''Escherichia coli'' [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23607455 disulfide bond isomerase DsbC] to act as a chaperone and to facilitate disulfide bond formation.  The native sec peptide at the N-terminus of DsbC has been removed to force intracellular localization, and a deca-His tag has been added to the N-terminus for purification by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC).  The C-terminal side of the fusion contains a TEV recognition and scar-less cleavage.  The cystine-nucleophile protease TEV cuts at the C-terminal side of its recognition sequence “ExxYxQ” leaving your protein unlabeled, however it cannot cut if either of the next two residues immediately downstream is a proline (a.k.a. the first or second residue of your protein).

=Prepare the expression construct=
We will be using [[Gibson Assembly]] with pCDB364 as the vector backbone cut with [https://www.neb.com/products/r3136-bamhi-hf ''Bam''HI-HF].  This plasmid carries a [[Antibiotic stock solutions#Kanamycin|kanamycin]] resistance cassette.

===Design the expression vector===
Generate the insert for your gene with the following DNA cassettes flanking the ends of your gene.
*upstream cassette: 5'- GCGAAAACCTGTATTTTCAG -3'
*downstream cassette: 5'- TAATGACGGCTGCTAACAAAGCCCGA -3' (this adds two stop codons to the end of your gene) 
The cassette sequences are given for the coding strand, but your DNA must be double stranded for Gibson assembly.  Either [https://www.neb.com/protocols/1/01/01/pcr-protocol-m0530 PCR] up an existing gene you wish to move into pCDB364, or obtain a synthetic gene, such as a [http://eu.idtdna.com/pages/products/genes gBlock] from IDT.

===Prepare the vector for Gibson assembly===
Digest a [http://www.qiagen.com/resources/Download.aspx?id={89BFA021-7310-4C0F-90E0-6A9C84F66CEE}&lang=en&ver=1 mini-prep]'s worth of pCDB364 DNA with a ≈ 100-fold over-digest using ''Bam''HI-HF from NEB.  This restriction endonuclease cannot be heat inactivated, but it does not interfere with assembly as long as your insert is free of ''Bam''HI-HF sites.  You can remove the ''Bam''HI-HF following the digest using a [https://www.qiagen.com/us/resources/download.aspx?id=390a728a-e6fc-43f7-bf59-b12091cc4380&lang=en PCR cleanup], but I usually don't bother.
*Make sure to determine the concentration of the DNA before you start the digest.  You will need the concentration of the digested DNA to set up the Gibson assembly reaction, and the presence of protein in the digestion reaction will make determining an accurate DNA concentration difficult by λ = 260 nm absorption afterwords.

===Assemble the vector===
Follow the [[Gibson Assembly#The Gibson Assembly|Gibson Assembly]] protocol.

===Transform the construct===
[http://tools.thermofisher.com/content/sfs/manuals/oneshottop10_chemcomp_man.pdf Transform] 5 μL from the Gibson assembly into [http://products.invitrogen.com/ivgn/product/C404010 TOP10] ''Escherichia coli'' and plate cells onto [[Media#LB agar|LB agar]] containing 30 μg/mL kanamycin.

===Verify the construct===
Inoculate 6 mL of [[Media#TBM|TBM]], supplemented with 100 μg/mL kanamycin, from a single colony.  Incubate overnight (≤ 16 hr) at 37 °C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM.  The next day, add 100 μL of sterile 100% [wt/vol] glycerol to 900 μL from the overnight culture, for a final volume of 1 mL with 10% [wt/vol] glycerol, in a cryo-vial and store at -80°C.  [http://www.qiagen.com/resources/Download.aspx?id={89BFA021-7310-4C0F-90E0-6A9C84F66CEE}&lang=en&ver=1 Mini-prep] the DNA from the remaining ≈ 5 mL of culture.  Determine the DNA concentration with the nano-drop and send for [http://www.genewiz.com/public/DNA-sequencing-services.aspx Sanger sequencing] using the following primers:
*Primer 876: 5'-AGCAATGGCACACTTG-3'
*T7 Terminator Primer: 5'-GCTAGTTATTGCTCAGCGG-3'
I recommend using [http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/bioedit/bioedit.html Bioedit] to perform the alignments to verify your construct sequence.  Here's an [http://phylogeneticgeek.wordpress.com/2011/08/05/how-to-install-bioedit-on-a-mac/ install guide for mac].


=Express the protein in bacteria=
===Transform into the expression strain===
Once the sequence of the expression constructs have been verified, transform ≈ 0.5 μL of purified plasmid into [https://www.neb.com/products/c2528-lemo21de3-competent-e-coli Lemo21(DE3)] cells.  Plate the cells onto [[Media#MDAG-11 agar|MDAG-11 agar]] supplemented with 100 μg/mL kanamycin and 30 μg/mL chloramphenicol.

===Prepare starter cultures===
Inoculate a 50 mL culture of [[Media#MDAG-135|MDAG-135]] in a 250 mL baffled Erlenmeyer flask, supplemented with 100 μg/mL kanamycin and 30 μg/mL chloramphenicol, using either a single colony from an agar plate, or by using a scrape from a -80 °C bacterial stock.  Incubate the culture for ≤ 16 hr at 37 °C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM.
*If you inoculate the starter culture using a pipette tip, do not eject the tip into the culture tube, as this is a common way to introduce contamination.

===Prepare media===
For each construct, prepare [[Media#TBM-5052|TBM-5052]] in a baffled Erlenmeyer flask.  Add kanamycin to 100 μg/mL, chloramphenicol to 30 μg/mL, and L-rhamnose to 1 mM.
*I recommend filling the flask to about 20 - 25 % of the total volume.  For example, I use 50 mL of media with a 250 mL flask, and 0.5 L of media with a 2 L flask.
*Do not use the proprietary [http://www.mpbio.com/product.php?pid=113046032 Terrific Broth II]

===Inoculate autoinduction culture===
Inoculate the expression media at a 1:100 dilution from the overnight culture (for example, use 500 μL of starter culture to inoculate 50 mL of expression media).  Incubate this culture at 20°C with shaking at ≈ 225 RPM for ≈ 16 - 24 hours.
*Add [http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/sigma/a6457 Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion] to 0.003% [wt/vol].  The stock solution is 30% [wt/vol], so treat Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion as if it were a 10,000× concentrate.  For example, add 50 μL of Antifoam Y-30 Emulsion to a 0.5 L expression culture (use a wide-bore pipette tip as the emulsion is highly viscous).

===Harvest cells===
Transfer the culture to a centrifuge bottle and pellet the bacteria from the media by centrifugation. Spin the cultures for 25 min at 4,000 × ''g'' at 4 °C.
*Make sure to save a sample of the culture prior to centrifugation for analysis by SDS-PAGE.


=Purify the protein=
Standard [http://wiki.baker/index.php/IMAC#Purification IMAC protocol], make sure not to include reductant in any of the purification buffers


==Cleave the fusion protein==
===Dialyize into cleavage buffer===
Dialyize the IMAC eluate against 1 L of [[# TEV Cleavage buffer| TEV cleavage buffer]] twice in serial to reduce the concentration of NaCl and imidazole.  After dialysis, transfer the protein to a 50 mL conical tube.
*If using a 20 mL D-tube dialyzer, dialyze overnight at 4 °C.
*Save ≈ 50 mL of the dialysis buffer after the dialysis is finished.

===Protease digestion===
Run a [http://www.bio-rad.com/en-us/sku/5000006-bio-rad-protein-assay-dye-reagent-concentrate Bradford assay] to determine the protein concentration in the dialyzed IMAC eluate.  To cleave the fusion construct, add ≈ 1 mg of superTEV protease for every 100 mg of fusion protein.  Incubate the digest at room temperature for ≈ 1 - 2 hr.
*A<sub>280</sub> is not recommended for determining protein concentration at this step; if there is any contaminating protein IMAC eluate, your concentration estimate can be dramatically incorrect.  Any assay agnostic to protein identity can be substituted in place of Bradford, such as BCA or Qubit.  Use the saved dialysis buffer to make the blank when determining protein concentration.
*Make sure to save a sample of the pre- and post-cleavage IMAC eluate for analysis by SDS-PAGE.
*Add DTT to 0.1 mM in the digestion reaction to keep the protease active


=Recipes=

====TEV cleavage buffer====
100 mM NaCl, 20 mM NaPi pH7.4

To make 1 L, add:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
!  quantity
!  stock solution
|-
| 50 mL || 2 M NaCl
|-
| 40 mL || 500 mM NaPi pH 7.4
|-
| colspan="2"| ''q.s.'' to 1 L with water.
|-
|}
